# Polynomial Sum Calculator
## Adhikrit Gupta
#### Video:  <[Click_me](https://youtu.be/v_i0UHS-Dzs)>
#### Description: The following is a program written in C programming language which calculates the sum of two polynomials entered by the user using Linked List.
#### Firstly, the structure to be used in linked list as a node is declared having two integer variables, one for storing the coeeficient term and one for storing the power term. It also contains a third pointer variable which points to a structure of the same type which is used to store the address of the next node so that all the nodes of the linked list are linearly connected.
#### Next, All functions to be used in the program are declared which are namely:-<br>**create** <br>**display**<br>**insert**<br>**add**
#### 1. **Create**: This is the function responsible for creating the polynomial by taking input from the user. The user is required to input the coefficient and power of the variable separately.The polynomial is created using linked list and by using dynamic memory allocation for creating each node of the linked list. The function returns head of the linked list once the value of power is entered 0.
#### 2. **Display**: This function takes one argument which is the head of the linked list then iterates and displays each node of the linked one by one. In this case it displays the polynomial whose head is passed to this function.
#### 3. **Insert**: This function takes two arguments one which is the head of a linked list and another which is a single node. The function then iterates over each node of the linked list until it reached the end or NULL. Then, it inserts the node which is the second argument to the end of the linked list i.e, stores the address of the node in the next variable of the last node. Hence, the node is inserted at the end of the linked list. Then, it returns the head of the linked list.
#### 4. **Add**: This function takes two arguments which are both the heads of the respective linked lists. Then, it iterates over each node of both the lists. If the value of power in both nodes is same, the value of coefficients is added and stored in the third which is the resultant polynomial. Otherwise if the power of both the nodes is not same, the coefficient value of the node with greater power is inserted into the resultant polynomial directly and only that list iterated over two the next nodes.<br> This loop runs until both lists have been iterated till the last node or NULL. After that, the head of the resultant linked list or polynomial is returned.
#### **main**: The **main** function firstly asks the user to enter the two polynomials by calling the create function separately for each polynomial. After that the **add** function is called and the head of both the created linked list is passed to the function and the returned value is stored in a separate variable. Finally the resultant linked list or polynomial is displayed by passing the head of the list to the **display** functiom.
